README.md, before:

# AVM Debugger

![GitHub Actions Workflow](https://github.com/algorand/avm-debugger/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/avm-debug-adapter.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/avm-debug-adapter)

## Summary

This repo contains an AVM debugger which adheres to the [Debug Adapter Protocol](https://microsoft.github.io/debug-adapter-protocol/).
This protocol is used by a variety of clients, and this repo additionally
implements a basic client for VS Code.

Unlike traditional debuggers, which typically execute code as it is being
debugged, this debugger operates on an execution trace. The trace is created by
the [algod simulate API](https://developer.algorand.org/docs/rest-apis/algod/#post-v2transactionssimulate).
This debugger is not responsible for compiling programs, assembling transaction groups, or executing
transactions/programs. It is only responsible for replaying the execution trace, which must already
exist.

This code is based on the [`vscode-mock-debug`](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-mock-debug) repo.

## Usage

There are multiple ways to invoke the debug adapter exported by this package.

### CLI

The debug adapter can be invoked from the command line using the `avm-debug-adapter` command.

If given no arguments, the debug adapter will use stdin and stdout to process messages.

To run as a server, use the `--port` option, shown below:

```bash
$ npm exec avm-debug-adapter -- --port=8080
>> running as a server, listening on 8080
```

### Programmatically

```typescript
// AvmDebugSession is a vscode.DebugAdapter implementation and can be imported
// directly if you don't want to run it as a server.
import { AvmDebugSession } from 'avm-debug-adapter';

// From node, you can create a debug adapter server like so
import { Server, nodeFileAccessor } from 'avm-debug-adapter/node';

const server = new Server({
  fileAccessor: nodeFileAccessor,
  port: 8080,
  onSocketError: (err) => {
    console.error(err);
  },
  onServerError: (err) => {
    console.error(err);
  },
});

console.log('Server listening on port ' + server.port());

process.on('SIGTERM', () => {
  server.close();
});
```

## Features

See [FEATURES.md](FEATURES.md) for a list of features this debugger supports.

## Build and Run

1. Clone the repo.
2. `npm i` to install dependencies.
3. Open the project folder in VS Code.
4. From the Run and Debug menu, run the `Extension` configuration to open the AVM Debug extension in another VS Code window.
5. In the new window, go to its Run and Debug menu to select and launch one of the existing configurations.
6. You are now in a debugging session of a transaction group. You can step through the transaction group, inspect variables, set breakpoints and more. See [FEATURES.md](FEATURES.md) for more details.

Commit message:

Add deprecation and link to maintained fork to README.

README.md, after:

# DEPRECATED

This repository is no longer actively maintained and will be archived. Please use [algokit-avm-debugger](https://github.com/algorandfoundation/algokit-avm-debugger) going forward.


## Summary

This repo contains an AVM debugger which adheres to the [Debug Adapter Protocol](https://microsoft.github.io/debug-adapter-protocol/).
This protocol is used by a variety of clients, and this repo additionally
implements a basic client for VS Code.

Unlike traditional debuggers, which typically execute code as it is being
debugged, this debugger operates on an execution trace. The trace is created by
the [algod simulate API](https://developer.algorand.org/docs/rest-apis/algod/#post-v2transactionssimulate).
This debugger is not responsible for compiling programs, assembling transaction groups, or executing
transactions/programs. It is only responsible for replaying the execution trace, which must already
exist.

This code is based on the [`vscode-mock-debug`](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-mock-debug) repo.

## Usage

There are multiple ways to invoke the debug adapter exported by this package.

### CLI

The debug adapter can be invoked from the command line using the `avm-debug-adapter` command.

If given no arguments, the debug adapter will use stdin and stdout to process messages.

To run as a server, use the `--port` option, shown below:

```bash
$ npm exec avm-debug-adapter -- --port=8080
>> running as a server, listening on 8080
```

### Programmatically

```typescript
// AvmDebugSession is a vscode.DebugAdapter implementation and can be imported
// directly if you don't want to run it as a server.
import { AvmDebugSession } from 'avm-debug-adapter';

// From node, you can create a debug adapter server like so
import { Server, nodeFileAccessor } from 'avm-debug-adapter/node';

const server = new Server({
  fileAccessor: nodeFileAccessor,
  port: 8080,
  onSocketError: (err) => {
    console.error(err);
  },
  onServerError: (err) => {
    console.error(err);
  },
});

console.log('Server listening on port ' + server.port());

process.on('SIGTERM', () => {
  server.close();
});
```

## Features

See [FEATURES.md](FEATURES.md) for a list of features this debugger supports.

## Build and Run

1. Clone the repo.
2. `npm i` to install dependencies.
3. Open the project folder in VS Code.
4. From the Run and Debug menu, run the `Extension` configuration to open the AVM Debug extension in another VS Code window.
5. In the new window, go to its Run and Debug menu to select and launch one of the existing configurations.
6. You are now in a debugging session of a transaction group. You can step through the transaction group, inspect variables, set breakpoints and more. See [FEATURES.md](FEATURES.md) for more details.
